hag where the judges are about to read
out their preliminary verdict over this
case bought by South Africa let's listen
in and Punishment of the crime of
genocide in the Gaza Strip South Africa
versus
Israel judge Robinson who duly
participated in both the deliberation
and the final vote is for reasons made
known to me unable to take his seat on
the bench
today I would like to welcome the
eminent representative of the Republic
of South Africa and the state of Israel
who are in the Great Hall of Justice
today in particular I recognize the
presence of Her Excellency Miss Nady
pondor minister of international
relations and cooperation of the
Republic of South Africa I recall that
on 29 December
2023 South Africa filed in the registry
of the Court an application instituting
proceedings against Israel concerning
alleged violations in the Gaza Strip of
obligations under the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide to which I shall refer as
the genocide convention or the
convention the application of South
Africa contained a request for the
indication of provisional measures
submitted with reference to article 41
of the statute and to articles 73 74 and
75 of the rules of court in accordance
with the usual practice I shall not read
the introductory paragraphs of the order
which set out the procedural history of
the case I shall also omit or summarize
some other paragraphs I shall therefore
begin the reading of the order at
paragraph
13 in the order the court Begins by
recalling the immediate context in which
the present case came before it it
observes that on 7 October 2023 Hamas
and other armed groups present in the
Gaza Strip carried out an attack in
Israel killing more than 1,200 persons
injuring thousands and abducting some
240 people many of whom continue to be
held
hostage following this attack Israel
launched a large scale military
operation in Gaza by land air and sea
which is causing massive civilian
casualties extensive destruction of
Civilian infrastructure and the
displacement of the overwhelming
majority of the population in
Gaza the court is acutely aware of the
extent of the human tragedy that is
unfolding in the region and is deeply
concerned about the continuing loss of
life and human
suffering the ongoing conflict in Gaza
has been addressed in the framework of
several organs and specialized agencies
of the United Nations in particular
reservations have been adopted by the
general assembly and the security
Council Council of the United Nations
referring to many aspects of the
conflict the scope of the present case
submitted to the court however is
limited as South Africa has instituted
these proceedings under the genocide
convention the court then turns to the
conditions needed to be fulfilled in
order for it to indicate provisional
measures with respect to the question of
primacia jurisdiction the court observes
that it may indicate provisional
measures only if the provisions were on
by the applicant appear primacia to
afford a basis on which its jurisdiction
could be founded but it need not satisfy
itself in a definitive manner that it
has jurisdiction as regards the merits
of the
case in the present case South Africa
seeks to found the jurisdiction of the
court on article 36 paragraph 1 of the
statute of the court and on article 9 of
the genocide convention the court must
therefore first determine whether those
provisions praasa confer upon it
jurisdiction to rule on the merits of
the case enabling it if the other
necessary conditions are fulfilled to
indicate provisional
measures article 9 of the genocide
convention provides I quote disputes
between the Contracting parties relating
to the interpretation application or
fulfillment of the present convention
including those relating to the
responsibility of a state for genocide
or for any of the other acts enumerated
in article 3 shall be submitted to the
international court of justice at the
request of any of the parties to the
dispute end of
quote South Africa and Israel are both
parties to the genocide convention and
neither of them has entered a
reservation to article 9 or any other
provision of the
convention the court then recalls that
article 9 of the genocide convention
makes its jurisdiction iction
conditional on the existence of a
dispute relating to the interpretation
application or fulfillment of the
convention a dispute is a disagreement
on a point of law or fact a conflict of
legal views or of interests between
parties in order for a dispute to exist
it must be shown that the claim of one
party is positively opposed by the other
the two sides must hold clearly opposite
views concerning the question of their
performance or non-performance of of
certain International obligations to
determine whether a dispute exists in
the present case the court cannot limit
itself to noting that one of the parties
maintains the convention applies while
the other denies it since South Africa
has invoked as a basis for the Court's
Jurisdiction the compromissory Clause of
the genocide
convention the court must also ascertain
at the present stage of the proceedings
whether it appears that the acts and
omissions complained of by the applicant
are capable of falling Within in the
scope of that convention Rion
mat the court recalls that for purposes
of deciding whether a dispute existed
between the parties at the time of the
filing of the application it takes into
account in particular any statements or
documents exchanged between the parties
as well as any exchanges made in
multilateral settings in so doing it
pays special attention to the author of
the statement or document its intended
or actual address e and its content
the existence of a dispute is a matter
for objective determination by the court
it is a matter of substance not a
question of form or
procedure the court notes that South
Africa issued public statements in
various multilateral and bilateral
settings in which it expressed its view
that in light of the nature scope and
extent of Israel's military operations
in Gaza Israel's actions amounted to
violations of its obligations under the
genocide convention vention for instance
at the resumed 10th emergency special
session of the United Nations General
Assembly on 12 December 2023 at which
Israel was represented the South African
representative to the United Nations
stated that I quote the events of the
past 6 weeks in Gaza have Illustrated
that Israel is acting contrary to its
obligations in terms of the genocide
convention end of quote South Africa
recalled this statement and note for BAL
of 21 December 2023 to the Embassy of
Israel in
ptor the court notes that Israel
dismissed any accusation of genocide in
the context of the conflict in Gaza in a
document published by the Israeli
Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 6th
December 2023 which was subsequently
updated and reproduced on the website of
the Israel Defense Forces on 15 December
2023 under the title the war against
Hamas
answering your most pressing questions
stating that I quote the accusation of
genocide against Israel is not only
wholly unfounded as a matter of fact and
law it is morally repugnant end of quote
in the document Israel also stated that
I quote the accusation of genocide is
not just legally and factually
incoherent it is obscene and that there
was no valid basis in factor law for the
outrageous charge of genocide end of
quote in light of the foregoing the
court considers that the parties appear
to hold clearly opposite views as to
whether certain Acts or omissions
allegedly committed by Israel in Gaza
amount to violations by the latter of
its obligations under the genocide
convention the court finds that the
aforementioned elements are sufficient
at this stage to establish primacia the
existence of a dispute between the
parties relating to the interpretation
application or fulfillment of the
genocide
Convention as to whether the acts and
omissions complained of by the applicant
appear to be capable of falling within
the provisions of the genocide
convention the court recalls that South
Africa considers Israel to be
responsible for committing genocide in
Gaza and for failing to prevent and
punish genocidal acts South Africa
contends that Israel has also violated
other obligations under the genocide
convention including those concerning
conspiracy to commit genocide direct and
public incitement to genocide attempted
genocide and complicity in
genocide at the present stage of the
proceedings the court is not required to
ascertain whether any violations of
Israel's obligations under the genocide
convention have occurred such a finding
could only be made by the court at the
stage of the examination of the merits
of the present case at the stage of
making an order on the request for an
indication of provisional measures the
Court's task is to establish whether the
acts and omissions capable sorry
complained of by the applicant appear to
be capable of falling within the
provisions of the genocide convention in
the Court's view at least some of the
acts and omissions alleged by South
Africa to have been committed by Israel
in Gaza appear to be capable of falling
within the provisions of of the
convention in light of the following the
court concludes that praasa it has
jurisdiction pursuant to article 9 of
the convention to entertain the
case given this conclusion the court
considers that it cannot AED to Israel's
requests that the case be removed from
the general
list the court turns next to the
question of standing of South Africa
Court notes that the respondent did not
challenge the standing of the applicant
in the present
proceedings in the case concerning
application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide The Gambia V Myanmar where
article 9 of the genocide was gen of the
genocide convention was also invoked the
court observed that all states parties
to the convention have a common interest
to ensure the prevention suppression and
Punishment of genocide by committing
themselves to fulfilling the obligations
contained in the
convention such common interest
implies that the obligations in question
are owed by any state party to all the
other state parties to the relevant
convention they are obligations erga
omis partis in the sense that each state
party has an interest in compliance with
them in any given case the common
interest in compliance with the relevant
obligations under the genocide
convention entails that any state party
without distinction is entitled to
invoke the responsibility of another
state party for an alleged breach of its
obligations erga omis partis accordingly
the court found that any state party to
the genocide convention May invoke the
responsibility of another state party
including through the institution of
proceedings before the court with a view
to determining the alleged failure to
comply with its obligations erga omes
pares under the convention and to
bringing a failure to the end the court
concludes Prima fascia that South Africa
has standing to submit to it the dispute
with Israel concerning alleged
violations of obligations under the
genocide
convention the court then turns to the
question of the rights whose protection
is sought and the link between such
rights and the measures requested it
recalls that its power to indicate
provisional measures under article 41 of
the statute has as its object the
preservation of the resp respective
rights claimed by the parties in a case
pending its decision on the merits
thereof it follows that the court must
be concerned to preserve by such
measures the rights which may
subsequently be adjudged by it to belong
to either party therefore the court May
exercise this power only if it is
satisfied that the rights asserted by
the party requesting such measures are
at least
plausible at this stage of the
proceedings however the court is not
called upon to determine definitively
whether the rights which South Africa
wishes to seek protected exist it need
only decide whether the rights claimed
by South Africa and for which it seeks
protection are plausible moreover a link
much must exist between the rights whose
protection is sought and the provisional
measures being
requested the court recalls that in
accordance with article one of the
convention all states parties theto have
undertaken to prevent and to punish the
crime of genocide article two provides
that I quote genocide means any of the
following acts committed with an intent
to destroy in whole or in part a
national ethnical racial or religious
group as such a killing members of the
group b causing serious bodily or mental
harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calc calulated to
bring about its physical destruction in
whole or in part D imposing measures
intended to prevent births within the
group E forcing forcibly transferring
Children of the group to another group
end of quote pursuant to article three
of the genocide convention the following
acts are also prohibited by the
convention conspiracy to commit genocide
direct and public incitement to commit
genocide attempt to commit genocide and
and complicity in
genocide the provisions of the
convention are intended to protect the
members of a national ethnical racial or
religious group from acts of genocide or
any other punishable acts enumerated in
article 3 the court considers that there
is a correlation between the rights of
members of groups protected under the
genocide convention the obligations
incumbent on state parties theto and the
right of any state party to seek
compliance
therewi by another state
party as the court has stated in other
cases in order for acts to fall within
the scope of article two of the
convention the intent must be to destroy
at least a substantial part of a
particular group this is demanded by the
very nature of the crime of genocide
since the object and purpose of the
Convention as a whole is to prevent the
intentional destruction of groups the
part part targeted must be significant
enough to have an impact on the group as
a whole the Palestinians appear to
constitute a distinct National ethnical
racial or religious group and hence a
protected group within the meaning of
article two of the genocide convention
the court observes that according to
United Nations sources the Palestinian
population in the Gaza Strip comprises
over 2 million people Palestinians in
the Gaza Strip form a substantial part
of the protected
group the court notes that the military
operation being conducted by Israel
following the attack of 7 October 2023
has resulted in a large number of deaths
and injuries as well as massive
destruction of homes the forcible
displacement of the vast majority of the
population and extensive damage to
civilian
infrastructure while figures relating to
the Gaza Strip cannot be independently
verified recent information information
indicates that
25,700 Palestinians have been killed
over 63,000 injuries have been reported
over 360 housing units have been
destroyed or partially damaged and
approximately 1.7 million persons have
been internally
displaced the court takes note in this
regard of the statement by the United
Nations under Secretary General for
humanitarian Aran Affairs and emergency
relief coordinator Mr Martin Griffiths
on 5 January 2024 I quote Gaza has
become a place of death and despair
families are sleeping in the open as
temperatures plummet areas where
civilians were told to relocate for
their safety have come under bombardment
medical facilities are under Relentless
attack a public health disaster is
unfolding Gaza has simply become
uninhabitable it's people are witnessing
daily threats to their very existence
while the world watches on end of
quote following a mission to North Gaza
the World Health Organization reported
that as of 21 December 2023 I quote an
unprecedented 93% of the population of
Gaza is facing crisis levels of hunger
with insufficient food and high levels
of malnutrition end of quote the court
further notes the statement issued by
the commissioner General of the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestinian Palestine refugees in the
near East or unra Mr Philipe lazarini on
13 January
2024 I quote it's been 100 days since
the devastating War started killing and
displacing people in Gaza following the
horrific attacks that Hamas and other
groups carried out against people in
Israel it's been 100 days of ordeal and
anxiety for hostages and their
families in the past 100 days sustained
bombardment across the gazer strip C
caused the massive displacement of a
population that is in a state of flux
constantly uprooted and forced to leave
overnight only to move to places which
are just as
unsafe this war affected more than 2
million people the entire population of
Gaza many will carry lifelong scars both
physical and
psychological the vast majority
including children are deeply
traumatized overcrowded and unsanitary
unrest shelters have become home to more
than 1.4 million people they lack
everything from food to hygiene to
privacy people live in inhumane
conditions where diseases are spreading
including among children they live
through the unlivable in the with the
clock ticking fast towards famine the
plight of children in Gaza is especially
heartbreaking an entire generation of
children is traumatized and will take
years to heal thousands have been killed
maimed and orphaned hundreds of
thousands are deprived of Education
their future is in jeopardy with
far-reaching and longlasting
consequences the unra commissioner
General also stated that the crisis in
Gaza is I quote compounded by
dehumanizing language end of quote in
this regard the court has taken note of
a number of statements made by senior
Israeli officials it calls attention in
particular to the following
examples on 9 October 2023 Mr yav Galant
defense minister of Israel announced
that he had ordered a Complete Siege of
Gaza City and there then that there
would be no electricity no food no fuel
and that everything was
closed on the following day Minister
Galant stated speaking to Israeli troops
on the Gara border I quote I have
released all restraints you saw what we
are fighting against we are fighting
Human animals this is the Isis of Gaza
this is what we are fighting against
Gaza won't return to what it was before
there will be no Hamas we will eliminate
everything if it doesn't take one day it
will take a week it will take weeks or
even months we will reach all places end
of
quote on 12 October 2023 Mr Isaac Herzog
president of Israel stated referring to
Gaza I quote we are working operating
militarily according to rules of
international law unequivocally it is an
entire nation out there that is
responsible it is not true this rhetoric
about civilian Ians not aware not
involved it is absolutely not true they
could have risen up they could have
fought against that evil regime which
took over Gaza in Auda but we are at War
we are at War we are at War we are
defending our homes we are protecting
our homes that's the truth and when a
nation protects its home it fights and
we will fight until we break their
backbone end of quote on 13 October 2023
Mr Israel Catz then minister of energy
and infrastructure of Israel stated on X
formerly Twitter I quote we will fight
the terrorist organization Hamas and
destroy it all the civilian population
in Gaza is ordered to leave immediately
we will win they will not receive a drop
of water or a single battery until they
leave the world end of
quote the court also takes note of a
press release of 16 November 2023 issued
by 37 special repur independent experts
and members of working groups part of
the special procedures of the United
Nations Human Rights Council in which
they voiced alarm over I quote
discernably genocidal and dehumanizing
rhetoric coming from senior Israeli
government officials end of quote in
addition on 27 October 2023 the United
Nations committee on the elimination of
racial discrimination observed that it
was highly concerned about the sharp
increase in racist hate speech and
dehumanization directed at Palestinians
since 7
October in the Court's view the
aforementioned facts and circumstances
are sufficient to conclude that at least
some of the rights claimed by South
Africa and for which it is seeking
protection are plausible this is the
case with respect to the right of
Palestinians in Gaza to be protected
from acts of genocide and related
prohibited acts identified in article 3
and the right of South Africa to seek
Israel's compliance with the latter's
obligations under the
convention the court then turns to the
condition of the link between the
plausible rights claimed by South Africa
and the provisional measures
requested it considers that by their
very nature at least some of the
provisional measures sought by South
Africa are aimed at preserving the
plausible rights it asserts on the basis
of the genocide convention in the
present case namely the right of the
Palestinians in Gaza to be protected
from acts of genocide and related
prohibited acts mentioned in article 3
and the right of South Africa to seek
Israel's compliance with the latter's
obligations under the convention
therefore a link exists between the
rights claimed by South Africa that the
court has found to be plausible and at
least some of the provisional measures
me
requested the court turns next to the
question of risk of ir referable
Prejudice and
urgency it notes that pursuant to
article 41 of its statute it has the
power to indicate provisional measures
when irreparable Prejudice could be
caused to rights which are the subject
of judicial proceedings or when the
alleged disregard of such rights might
entail irreparable consequences
however the power of the court to
indicate provisional measures will only
be exercised if there's urgency in the
sense that there is a real and imminent
risk that irreparable prejudice will be
caused to the rights claimed before the
Court gives its final decisions the
condition of urgency is met when the
acts susceptible of causing irreparable
Prejudice can occur at any moment before
the court makes the final decision in
the case the court must therefore
consider whether such a risk exists at
this stage of the
proceedings the court is not called upon
for purposes of its decision on the
request for the indication of
provisional measures to establish the
existence of breaches of obligations
under the genocide convention but to
determine whether the circumstances
require the indication of provisional
measures for the protection of rights
under that instrument as already noted
the court cannot at this stage make
definitive findings of fact and the
right of each party to submit arguments
with respect to the merits remains
unaffected by the Court's decision on
the request for the indication of
provisional
measures the court recalls that as
underlined in general assembly
resolution 961 of 11 December 1946 I
quote genocide is a denial of the right
of existence of entire human groups as
homicide is the denial of the right to
live of individual human beings beings
such denial of the right of existence
shocks the conscience of mankind results
in great losses to humanity in the form
of cultural and other contributions
represented by these human groups and is
contrary to moral law and to the spirit
and aims of the United Nations end of
quote in view of the fundamental values
sought to be protected by the genocide
convention the court considers that the
plausible rights in question in this
proceeding namely the right of
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip to be
protected from acts of genocide and
related prohibited acts identified in
article 3 of the genocide convention and
the right of South Africa to seek
Israel's compliance with the latter's
obligation under the convention are of
such a nature that prejudice to them is
capable of C causing irreparable
harm during the ongoing conflict senior
United Nations officials have repeatedly
called attention to the risk of of
further deterioration of conditions in
the Gaza Strip the court takes note for
instance of the letter dated 6 December
2023 whereby the Secretary General of
the United Nations brought the following
information to the attention of the
security Council I quote the Health Care
system in Gaza is collapsing nowhere is
safe in Gaza amid constant bombarding by
the Israel Defense Forces and without
shelter or the essentials to survive I
expect public order to break to
completely break down soon due to the
desperate conditions rendering even
limited humanitarian assistance
impossible an even worst situation could
unfold including epidemic diseases and
increased pressure for Mass displacement
into neighboring
countries we are facing a severe risk of
collapse of the humanitarian system the
situation is fast deteriorating into a c
catastrophe with potentially
irreversible implications for
Palestinians as a whole and for peace
and Security in the regon region such an
outcome must be avoided at all costs end
of
quote on 5 January 2024 the Secretary
General wrote again to the security
Council providing an update on the
situation in the Gaza Strip and
observing that I quote sadly devastating
levels of death and destruction continue
end of quote the court also takes note
of the 17 January 2024 statement issued
by the unra commissioner General upon
return from his fourth visit to the Gaza
Strip since the beginning of the current
conflict in Gaza I quote every time I
visit Gaza I witness how people have
sunk further into despair with the
struggle for survival consuming every
hour end of
quote the court considers that the
civilian population in the Gaza Strip
remains extremely vulnerable it recalls
that the military operation conducted by
Israel after 7 October 2023 has resulted
inter Alia in tens of thousands of
deaths and injuries and the destruction
of homes schools medical facilities and
other vital infrastructure as well as
displacement on a massive scale the
court notes that the operation is
ongoing and that the prime minister of
Israel announced on 18 January 202 for
that the War I quote will take many more
long months end of quote at present many
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have no
access to the most basic food stuffs
portable water electricity essential
medicines or
heating the World Health Organization
has estimated that
15% of the women giving birth in Gaza
Strip are likely to experience
complications and indicates that
maternal and newborn born death rates
are expected to increase due to the lack
of access to Medical
Care in these circumstances the court
considers that the catastrophic
humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip
is at serious risk of deteriorating
further before the court renders its
final
judgment the court recalls Israel's
statement that it has taken certain
steps to address and alleviate the
conditions faced by the population in
the Gaza Strip the court further notes
that the Attorney General of Israel
recently stated that a call for
intentional harm to civilians May amount
to a criminal offense including that of
incitement and that several such cases
are being examined by Israeli law
enforcement authorities while such steps
are to be encouraged they are
insufficient to remove the risk that
irreparable prejudice will be caused
before the court issues its final
decision in the
case in light of the foregoing the court
considers that there is urgency in the
sense that there is a real and imminent
risk that irreparable prejudice will be
caused to the rights found by the court
to be plausible before it gives its
final
decision the court concludes on the
basis of the aforementioned
considerations that the conditions
required by its statute for it to
indicate provisional measures are met it
is therefore necessary pending its final
decision for the court to indicate
certain measures in order to protect the
rights claimed by South Africa that the
court has found to be
plausible the court recalls that it has
the power under its statute when a
request for provisional measures has
been
made to indicate measures that are in
whole or in part other than those
requested in the present case having
considered the terms of the provisional
measures requ requested by South Africa
and the circumstances of the case the
court finds that the measures indicated
need not be identical to those
requested the court considers that with
regard to the present situation Israel
must in accordance with its obligations
under the genocide convention in
relation to Palestinians in Gaza take
all measures within its power to prevent
the commission of all acts within the
scope of Article 2 of the convention in
particular a killing groups members of
the group b causing serious bodily or
mental harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in whole
or in part and D imposing measures
intended to prevent bursts within the
group the court recalls that these acts
fall within the scope of Article 2 of
the convention when they are committed
with the intent to destroy in whole or
in part the group as
such the court further considers that
Israel must ensure with immediate effect
that its military forces do not commit
any of the aforementioned
acts the court is also of the view that
Israel must take measures within its
power to prevent and punish the direct
and public incitement to commit genocide
in relation to the members of the
Palestinian group in the
trip the court further considers that
Israel must take immediate and effective
measures to enable the provision of
urgently needed basic services and
humanitarian assistance to address the
adverse conditions of life based by
Palestinians in the Gaza
Strip Israel must also take effective
measures to prevent the destruction and
ensure the preservation of evidence
related to allegations of Acts within
the scope of article 2 and article 3 of
the genocide convention against members
of the Palestinian group in the Gaza
Strip regarding the provisional measure
requested by South Africa that Israel
must submit a report to the court on all
measures taken to give effect to the
order the court recalls that it has the
power reflected in article 78 of the
rules of court to request the parties to
provide information on any matter
connected with the implementation of any
provisional measures it has
indicated in view of the specific
provisional measures it has decided to
in indicate the court considers that
Israel must submit a report to the court
on all measures taken to give effect to
this order within one month as from the
date of this order the report so
provided shall then be communicated to
South Africa which shall be given the
opportunity to submit to the court its
comments
thereon the court recalls that its ORD
unprovisioned effect and thus create
International legal obligations for any
party to whom the provisional measures
are
addressed the court reaffirms that the
decision given in the present
proceedings in no way prejudges the
question of the jurisdiction of the
court to deal with the merits of the
case or any questions related to the
admissibility of the application or to
the merits themselves it leaves
unaffected the right of the governments
of the Republic of South Africa and the
state of Israel to submit arguments in
respect of these
questions the order then states that the
court deems it necessary to emphasize
that all parties to the conflict in the
Gaza stript are bound by International
humanitarian law it is Gravely concerned
about the fate of the hostages abducted
during the attack in Israel on 7 October
2023 and held since then by Hamas and
other armed groups and calls for their
immediate and unconditional
release I shall Now read out the
operative part of the
order for these reasons the court
indicates the following provisional
measures one by 15 votes to two the
state of Israel shall in accordance with
its obligation under the convention on
the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide in relation to the
Palestinians in Gaza take all measures
within its power to prevent the
commission of all acts within the scope
of article two of the convention in
particular a killing members of the
group b causing serious bodily or mental
harm to members of the group C
deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction and in
whole or in part and D imposing measures
intended to prevent births within the
group in favor president Donahue vice
president gorgian judges tomka Abraham
Bona
Yousef bandari Robinson Salam iwasawa
nte Charlesworth brand judge adhoc M
against judge seend judge adok
irck by 15 votes to two the state of
Israel shall ensure with immediate
effect that its military does not commit
any acts described in 0.1 above in favor
president Donahue vice president gorgian
judges TKA Abraham Bona yusf SCH bandari
Robinson Salam iwasawa not Charlesworth
brand judge edok
M against judge seend judge adok
Barack by 16 votes to one the state of
Israel shall take all measures within
its power to prevent and punish the
direct and public incitement to commit
genocide in relation to members of the
Palestinian group in the Gaza Strip in
favor president donu vice president
gorgian judges tomka Abraham benona
Yousef SCH bandari Robinson Salam
iwasawa nte Charlesworth brand judges ad
hoc Barack M against judge
seend by 16 votes to one the state of
Israel shall take immediate and
effective measures to ensure the
provision of urgently needed basic
services and humanitarian assistance to
address the adverse conditions of life
faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip
in favor president Donahue vice
president gorgian judges tomka Abraham
Bona Yousef SCH bandari Robinson Salam
iwasawa nte Charlesworth Brandt judges
ad hoc Barack M against judge
seend by 15 votes to
two the state of Israel shall take
effective measures to prevent the
destruction and ensure the preservation
of evidence related to allegations of
Acts within the scope of article two and
article three of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide against members of the
Palestinian group in the Gaza Strip in
favor president donu vice president
gorgian judges tomka Abraham banona
Yousef bandari Robinson Salam
iwasawa nte Charlesworth brand judge
edok M against judge seend judge edak
Barack by 15 votes to two the state of
Israel shall submit a report to the
court on all measures taken to give
effect to this order within one month as
from the date of the
order in favor president donu vice
president Gorgan judges tomka Abraham
Bona
Yousef bandari Robinson Salam iawa nte
Charlesworth Brandt judge adok M
against judge znd judge edak
Barack I shall Now call upon the
registar to read the operative part of
the order in
French so there you have the judge Jo
Joan Donahue the United States uh sizing
up the provisional measures that the
court has agreed the court of 17 members
uh no ceasefire is the headline amongst
those but humanitarian assistance is
required